The President:
Hi, everybody.
This week, I went down to an
Amazon warehouse in Tennessee
to talk more about
what we need to do
to secure a better bargain
for the middle class -
to make sure that anyone who
works hard can get ahead
in the 21st century economy.
Over the past four
and a half years,
we've fought our way back
from the worst recession
of our lifetimes and begun
to lay a foundation
for stronger, more durable economic growth.
Today, our businesses
have created 7.3 million
new jobs over the
last 41 months.
We now sell more
products made in America
to the rest of the
world than ever before.
Health care costs are growing
at the slowest rate in 50 years,
and our deficits are falling at
the fastest rate in 60 years.
But as any middle-class
family will tell you,
we're not where
we need to be yet.
Even before the crisis hit,
we were living through a decade where a few at the top
were doing better and better,
while most families were working
harder and harder
just to get by.
Reversing this trend must be
Washington's highest priority.
It sure is mine.
But too often over
the past two years,
Washington has taken
its eye off the ball.
They've allowed an endless
parade of political posturing
and phony scandals to distract
from growing our economy
and strengthening
the middle class.
That's why I'm laying out my
ideas for how we can build
on the cornerstones
of what it means
to be middle class in America.
A good education.
A home of your own.
Health care when you get sick.
A secure retirement
even if you're not rich.
And the most important
cornerstone of all:
a good job in a durable,
growing industry.
When it comes to creating more
good jobs that pay decent wages,
the problem is not
a lack of ideas.
Plenty of independent
economists,
business owners and people
from both parties agree
on what we have to do.
I proposed many of these
ideas two years ago
in the American Jobs Act.
And this week, I put forward
common-sense proposals
for how we can create more
jobs in manufacturing;
in wind, solar and natural gas;
and by rebuilding
America's infrastructure.
What we're lacking is
action from Washington.
And that's why, in
addition to proposing ideas
that we know
will grow our economy,
I've also put
forward a strategy
for breaking through
the Washington logjam -
a "grand bargain"
for the middle class.
I'm willing to work with
Republicans to simplify
our tax code for businesses
large and small,
but only if we take the money
we save by transitioning
to a simpler tax system and
make a significant investment
in creating good,
middle-class jobs.
We can put
construction workers
back on the job rebuilding
our infrastructure.
We can boost manufacturing,
so more American companies
can sell their products
around the world.
And we can help our community
colleges arm our workers
with the skills they
need in a global economy -
all without adding
a dime to the deficit.
I'll keep laying out my
ideas to give the middle class
a better shot
in the 21st century,
and I'll keep reaching out
to Republicans for theirs.
But gutting critical
investments in our future
and threatening national default
on the bills that Congress
has already racked up -
that's not an economic plan.
Denying health care
to millions of Americans,
or shutting down the government
just because I'm
for keeping it open -
that won't help
the middle class.
The truth is,
there are no gimmicks
when it comes to creating jobs.
There are no tricks
to grow the economy.
Reversing the long erosion
of middle-class security
in this country won't be easy.
But if we work together and
take a few bold steps -
and if Washington is
willing to set aside politics
and focus on what
really matters -
we can grow our economy
and give the middle class
a better bargain.
And together, we can make
this country a place
where everyone who works
hard can get ahead.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.